---
title: Boosts
description: Boosts
sidebar_position: 3
---
# Boosts

The boost a participant receives is directly linked to their trading activity, specifically the volume traded or generated by their liquidity. This boost is active for an epoch of 7 days from Monday to Sunday and is reassessed at the end of each 7-day cycle. To maintain or attain a higher boost level, a participant needs to consistently engage in higher volume trading or generating volume through its liquidity.

Here's how the boost levels are structured:

| Level | Boost         | Requirements in a 7 day epoch             |
| ----- | ------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| 0     | x1 (No Boost) | For volume between $0 and $9,999.         |
| 1     | x1.75         | For volume between $10,000 and $19,999.   |
| 2     | x2.5          | For volume between $20,000 and $49,999.   |
| 3     | x3            | For volume between $50,000 and $99,999    |
| 4     | x3.5          | For volume between $100,000 and $499,000. |
| 5     | x4            | For volume of $500,000 or more.           |
    

This tiered system ensures that the more a participant trades or generates volume, the higher the boost they can achieve, incentivizing consistent and increased trading activity.

**Example**: In the WETH/USDB Market:

* If $1 million is traded in one day on this market, takers earn 1 million points (since $1 = 1 point).
* Makers, in turn, earn 3 million points (3 times the taker's points).
* Note: These points are allocated before individual boosts are applied.

Finally, each participant's boost is applied to the LP + trading points earned from both taker and maker activities. The level of boost depends on the participant's level, which in turn is determined by their traded and generated volume.

For instance, a participant with 100,000 points from taker and maker activities at Level 1 will receive a x1.75 boost, resulting in a total of 175,000 points.
